---
title: "How dogs learn like infants"
date: 2022-09-22T23:28:52-07:00
author: "Ryan Cardenas"
draft: false
---

We want to take dog barks and their body language and store them in a data bank to help us understand how dogs communicate. This process has been started with other startups to help us understand the differences between babies crying. I have a 5 month old baby and it is sometimes hard to figure out what they need when I walk in the door. Most of the time I know my babies’ schedules so it is easy to figure out most of the time. Knowing the context of the cry would make any parent/caregivers life so much easier. 

I have a 3 year old daughter and a 5 month old daughter. Our 3 year old went to speech therapy when she was about 1 to get her on track for her speech. She would say a couple words but was a bit behind of where she needed to be. So we started speech therapy and they did a lot of play therapy to help her understand different words to broaden her vocabulary. It would be about 1-2 hours a week with a therapist and then the therapist would tell me and my wife ways to practice at home. This is where most of the work was done because we were given the foundation of what to do each week and we built up our daughters language by playing with her. It was a lot of repetition and putting the object by our mouths so she can see how we use our mouth to form the word. After about 6 months she was forming 4 to 5 word sentences at about a year and a half. 

Fast forward to now, she is talking nonstop and understands so much. It makes a world of difference to know what your toddler is saying. It took a lot of work but it was totally worth it and now we have to be careful what we say because she is a vacuum for new words. We are definitely planning on using the same techniques we learned with our oldest with our youngest when it is time to help her learn to talk. Knowing what to do is so crucial. 

Dogs and infants learn the same way. Dogs learn a lot by play training and the brains function very similarly to infants. We would love to hear some stories from you all that deal with this same phenomenon.
